	Whatever might have been be the basis for this dubious book, it
must have been a question of the utmost importance and charm, as
well as a deeply personal one. Testimony to that effect is the time in
which it arose (in spite of which it arose), that disturbing era of the
Franco-Prussian war of 1870-71. While the thunderclap of the Battle
of Worth was reverberating across Europe, the meditative lover of
enigmas whose lot it was to father this book sat somewhere in a
corner of the Alps, extremely reflective and perplexed (thus
simultaneously very distressed and carefree) and wrote down his
thoughts concerning the Greeks, the kernel of that odd and difficult
book to which this later preface (or postscript) should be dedicated.
A few weeks after that, he found himself under the walls of Metz,
still not yet free of the question mark which he had set down beside
the alleged "serenity" of the Greeks and of Greek culture, until, in
that month of the deepest tension, as peace was being negotiated in
Versailles, he finally came to peace with himself and, while slowly
recovering from an illness he'd brought back home with him from
the field, finished composing the Birth of Tragedy out of the Spirit of
Music.
--From music? Music and tragedy? The Greeks and the Music of
Tragedy? The Greeks and the art work of pessimism? The most
successful, most beautiful, most envied people, those with the most
encouraging style of life—the Greeks? How can this be? Did they
really need tragedy? Even more to the point, did they really need art?
And Greek art, what is that, and how did it come about?
One can guess from all this just where the great question mark
about the worth of existence was placed. Is pessimism necessarily
the sign of collapse, destruction, and disaster, of the exhausted and
enfeebled instinct, as it was among the Indians, as it is now, to all
appearances, among us "modern" peoples and Europeans? Is there a
pessimism of the strong? An intellectual inclination for what in
existence is hard, dreadful, angry, and problematic, emerging from
what is healthy, from overflowing well being, from living existence
to the full? Is there perhaps a way of suffering from the very fullness
of life, a tempting courage of the keenest sight which demands what
is terrible, like an enemy—a worthy enemy—against which it can
test its power, from which it will learn what "to fear" means?
What does the tragic myth mean precisely for the Greeks of the
best, strongest, and bravest age? What about that tremendous
phenomenon of the Dionysian? And what about what was born out
of the Dionysian—the tragedy? By contrast, what are we to make of
what killed tragedy—Socratic morality, dialectic, the satisfaction and
serenity of the theoretical man? Could not this very Socratic way be
a sign of collapse, exhaustion, sickness, and the dissolution of the
anarchic instinct? And could the "Greek serenity" of later Greek
periods be only a red sunset? Could the Epicurean will hostile to
pessimism be merely the prudence of a suffering man? And even
scientific enquiry itself, our science—indeed, what does all scientific
enquiry in general mean considered as a symptom of life? What is
the point of all that science and, even more serious, where did it
come from? What about that? Is scientific scholarship perhaps only
a fear and an excuse in the face of pessimism, a delicate self-defence
against—the Truth? And speaking morally, something like
cowardice and falsehood? Speaking unmorally, a clever trick? Oh,
Socrates, Socrates, was that perhaps your secret? Oh you secretive
ironist, was that perhaps your—irony?
 
